After more than 5 years as a research engineer in France, I decided to take full control of my life.
I decided in October 2021 to leave everything to start my entrepreneurial activity, learn Data Science from scratch, and work with companies around the world.
I document my adventure on social media. I tell my story and experience through podcasts and conferences.
I see life as an epic adventure, where I am the hero of my own story, seeking to gain experience points in the range of skills that characterize me.


Concerning my education, I have done all my studies in France. After succeeding preparatory classes for the French "Grandes Ecoles", I got an engineer degree at ENSEM (Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'Electricité et de Mécanique) in 2016. I also got a PhD in physics (heat transfers & fluid mechanics) in 2021, in partnership with EDF, TOTAL and the LTEN in Nantes. 


Ph.D. : Research Engineer in Offshore Energies
March 2018 - July 2021
City : Nantes - France
• Context : offshore energies industries are concerned about thermal constraints imposed on cables installed on offshore wind farms and oil platforms.
• Propose technical solutions to cool the cable by 11%, based on statistical
analysis. The developed model was compared to a one-year measurement
data set acquired on an existing offshore platform.
• Estimate, design and supervise the setting up of a 15k€ experimental model.
Rigorous exploitation is performed. Manage planning and set up progress
review meetings with stakeholders in strict compliance with the timetable.
• Organize, synthesize & communicate results to stakeholders and business
units (Canada, UK, France). Expose results in international conferences and
journals. Potential cost and risk reduction solutions are submitted.


Data Analyst - Consultant
February 2017 - February 2018
City : Paris - France
• Analyze technical-economic data and develop tools with Excel/VBA to manage activities. Present weekly advances to the executive committee.
• Propose solutions to optimize project management and team-working with
industrial actors. Advanced tools are delivered to the client.
• Have started from scratch. After one year, supervise a group of 4 consultants
& communicate with the industrial client to ensure satisfaction & a good
relationship.


Research & Development Engineer
March 2016 – August 2016
City : Paris - France
• Study & improve the industrial production of laminated glasses in Europe.
Solutions are provided, reducing the cost of production & improving the
quality of the product.
• Plan and perform measurements on a reduced model in lab & on industrial
sites using infrared measurements and thermocouples in strict compliance
with the production schedule.
• Present business-oriented results to experts & managers.


I have done two online certifications in Data Science:
• 365 Data Science - The complete Data Science Bootcamp
• Natural Language Processing Specialization


I am an expert in Natural Language Processing. Depending on your objectives, I develop solutions using artificial intelligence and deploy models into your application within a team of developers.


For my clients around the world, I have:
 📄 Automated information extraction from legal documents and contracts through an API created within an IT team,
 🤖 Built an intelligent assistant to chat with to learn everything about documents,
 ✍️ Written articles popularizing the latest technological innovations and methods around NLP,
 💵 Won a multi-million contract with a team of sales as the NLP expert,
And more...


I was born in Bourges, in Central France. I lived for 20 years in a little city called Fussy. I spent time with my friends doing things I'm not allowed to share with you =) (but I can share that I particularly enjoyed this time)


Dancing is one of my passions. I love it! I have danced Bachata for almost 5 years now. Bachata is a latin dance from Dominican Republic, and is danced all over the world. I also play guitar and I love play Nothing Else Matters from Metallica.